=head1 NAME

RevBank::Accounts - Banking and bookkeeping accounts

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package handles all accounts in RevBank. RevBank does doubly-entry bookkeeping and has multiple account types to accommodate that.

This package is where manipulation of C<revbank.accounts> happens.

=head2 Account types

=over 4

=item * User accounts

User accounts are typically made with the C<adduser> command, and almost all interactions with RevBank will involve only user accounts, from the perspective of the user.

The name of a user account is called a I<username> within RevBank.

Any account that does not begin with one of the characters C<->, C<+>, or C<*>, is a user account.

=item * Hidden accounts

The name of a hidden account begins with a C<-> or C<+> sign. These accounts are created automatically by plugins to provide the I<double> part in I<doubly-entry bookkeeping>.

Hidden accounts are internal accounts in the sense that they are not displayed and can't be used in the CLI where user accounts can.

There is no technical difference between C<+> and C<->, but it is suggested to use C<-> for accounts that will typically go negative and would be flipped to a positive number to make intuitive sense.

For example, the C<-cash> account will go to C<-4.20> when someone deposits 4.20 into the cash box. It has to be a negative number, to balance the positive number added to the balance of the user. But the cash box will contain 4.20 more than before, even though the number is negative.

Some plugins will use C</> to establish hierarchical account names in hidden accounts, like in C<+sales/products>. To RevBank, C</> is just a regular character, and it has no specific semantics for these hierarchies.

=item * User-accessible special accounts

The name of a user-accessible special account begins with a C<*> sign. A special account can only be created by editing the C<revbank.accounts> file manually. They can be used like user accounts, with or without the C<*> sign, but they do not count towards the grand total of user accounts.

The suggested use for user-accessible special accounts is for creating accounts that are virtual jars. For example, if users pay towards a virtual jar for kitchen equipment when they use the kitchen (like in the C<dinnerbonus> plugin), but are also allowed to use those funds for buying kitchen equipment, a user-accessible special account might be more convenient than having separate revenue and expense accounts, especially because those would typically be hidden accounts.

=back

=head3 Bookkeeping

While RevBank does double-entry bookeeping, it does not use the terms I<credit> and I<debit> anywhere. Everything is just plus or minus. To use the data in bookkeeping software, some translation is required.

There are many systems for bookkeeping. In the accounting equation approach, RevBank's account types would translate as:

=over 4

=item * user accounts

Liabilities accounts

=item * hidden accounts (C<+>)

Revenues/incomes accounts.

=item * hidden accounts (C<->)

Expenses/losses accounts, or assets accounts.

=item * user-accessible special accounts (C<*>)

This one is slightly more complicated, because this depends on your view on accounting. From a pure bookkeeping perspective, this would be a liabilities account because it is technically equivalent to a user account, but it would make sense to book additions as revenue and deductions as expenses.

=back

=head2 Data format

The file C<revbank.accounts> is a text file with one record per line, and whitespace separated fields. The columns are:

=over 4

=item * Account name

The account name can be anything, but cannot contain whitespace. Special accounts begin with C<+>, C<->, or C<*>.

Account names are case preserving, but case insensitive.

Every account name must be unique. A file with duplicate names is not valid and may lead to crashes or undefined behavior. Since C<*foo> can be used as either C<*foo> or C<foo>, it is not allowed to have both C<*foo> and C<foo> in the accounts file.

=item * Balance

The account balance is a number with two decimal digits. Positive numbers may have a C<+> sign. Negative number have a C<-> sign.

If the value in this field is not a valid number, the account is treated as non-existent by most of RevBank, while still being unavailable for C<adduser>.

If the value begins with a C<!> character, the I<rest of the line> is taken as a description of why the account name is not available and printed as a warning when the account name is used.

=item * Last use timestamp

Local datetime of the last update of this account.

=item * Zero-crossing timestamp

Local datetime of the last time the balance went through 0.00. The timestamp is preceded with C<-@>, C<+@>, or C<0@> to indicate the direction of the crossing: C<-@> can be read as "became negative at", etc.

This field is empty for accounts that have not yet been used.

=back

Only the first two columns are mandatory. This makes migrating to RevBank very simple.

=head2 Functions

Account names are case preserving, but case insensitive. Account name arguments to functions are case insensitive, but return values use the canonical capitalization.

Anything that outputs a username should always run it through C<parse_user> or C<assert_account>.

=head3 names

Returns a list of all account names.

=head3 balance($name)

Returns a RevBank::Amount that represents the balance of the account.

=head3 since($name)

Returns the last used datetime of the account.

=head3 create($name)

Creates an account with that name and a balance of zero. The name must not already exist.

After updating the file, calls the C<account_created> hook with the account name.

=head3 update($name, $delta, $transaction_id)

Given the relative change (C<$delta>), updates the user balance for an account.

After updating the file, calls the C<account_balance> hook with the account name, the old balance, the given delta, the new balance, and the transaction_id.

This function should not be used directly; instead, create a transaction via C<RevBank::Cart> and use C<checkout> to ensure a balanced booking for proper double-entry bookkeeping.

=head3 is_hidden($name)

Returns true if the account is hidden (begins with C<+> or C<->).

=head3 is_special($name)

Returns true if the account is hidden (begins with C<+> or C<->), or user-accessible but special (begins with C<*>).

=head3 parse_user($username)

Returns the canonical account name if the account exists and is not a hidden account, or undef otherwise.

=head3 assert_account($name)

For a hidden account, returns the canonical account name, creating the account if it did not already exist.

For a non-hidden account, returns the canonical account name if the account exists, or throws an exception if it does not exist.

=head1 HISTORY

Originally, RevBank had only user accounts, and the package was called C<RevBank::Users>. When hidden (internal) accouns were added, account names were still always in variables called C<$user> or C<$username> even if they were hidden accounts and thus not accessible to users. In current RevBank, the term I<account> is used as the generic thing, or I<user> only in places where only user accounts (non-hidden accounts) are supported.

This change took place in 2025, and some backwards compatibility will be kept until at least 2027-05-01. See UPGRADING.md for more information.

=head1 AUTHOR

Juerd Waalboer <#####@juerd.nl>

=head1 LICENSE

Pick your favorite OSI license.

