=head1 NAME

RevBank::Amount - Fixed point 2-decimal numeric values that DWYM

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    $amount = RevBank::Amount->new(30);               # 0.30
    $amount = RevBank::Amount->parse_string("0.30");  # 0.30

    $amount->cents   # 30
    $amount->string  # "0.30"

    $a2 = $amount + "1.23"

    # Not recommended:
    $a2 = $amount + $float     # may emit warning
    $a2 = $amount / $anything  # emits warning
    $a2 = $amount * 1.21       # emits warning

    # If you have to use floats, do so explicitly:
    $amount = RevBank::Amount->new_from_float(.3);
    $amount = RevBank::Amount->new_from_float(0.30);
    $amount = RevBank::Amount->new_from_float(0.425);  # rounds to .42, no warning
    $amount->float

    $a2 = $amount->new_from_float($amount->float * 1.21);  # no warning

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class implements numeric values at two decimal digits precision,
with transparent rounding to whole cents. Regular numeric operations are
supported through operator overloading, and instances stringify as
formatted numbers. Non-integer arithmetic is done using floating point
operations, after which the result is converted back into a fixed point
object.

Using floating point for financial applications is generally a bad idea,
but RevBank was originally built with floats, and now we're stuck having
to keep supporting them at least a bit, for backwards compatibility with
existing plugins. For new code, it is recommended to use integer
arithmetic on the number of cents only.

When rounding early enough, using floating point numbers isn't much of a
problem when working with 2 decimals in amounts of money that are
customary in day to day usage by people. Every number is sufficiently
accurately representable as an IEEE single, and Perl's own
stringification of floating points takes care of the most annoying
differences. But if you don't round (and earlier RevBank didn't always
do that), strange things can happen. Also, "-0.00" is annoying...

Note: this class does not play nice with other classes that use operator
overloading.

=head2 Constructors

=head3 new

Construct from a number of cents. If the number is not an integer, it
will be rounded without warning, is a possibly surprising way.

=head3 new_from_float

Construct from a number. The number will be rounded to two decimals
without warning, in a possibly surprising way.

=head3 parse_string

Construct from a string. Either C<,> or C<.> is accepted as a decimal
point; no other separators (like thousands separators) are accepted. The
string may optionally be prefixed with a sign, either C<+> or C<->.
Numbers with more than two digits after the decimal point are rejected.
Whitespace is ignored at either end of the string, but invalid within a
number or between the sign and the number.

Returns undef when the given string is not valid.

=head2 Instance methods

=head3 cents

Returns an integer that accurately represents the amount in cents.

=head3 float

Returns the floating point number that is the closest to the actual
amount. Note: not all numbers can be accurately represented as a
floating point number, which is the reason this class exists...

=head3 string

Returns a formatted number. Negative numbers get a sign in front, while
zero and positive numbers do not.

=head2 Overloading

Overloaded operations may throw an exception when the operand doesn't
stringify to something that is accepted by C<parse_string>, e.g. C<<
$amount + 1.001 >> won't work because 0.001 has too many digits after
the decimal point.

When working with values that aren't safe, hard-coded literals, always
turn them into RevBank::Amount objects first, which takes care of te
necessary rounding: C<< $amount + RevBank::Amount->new_from_float(1.001)
>>.
