=head1 NAME

products - RevBank plugin for selling products

=head1 SYNOPISIS

	8710447032756              0.80          Festini Peer
	4029764001807,clubmate     1.40          Club-Mate +pf
	pf                         0.15@+pfand   Pfand NRW-Flasche

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This plugin turns products from a product list into RevBank commands.

The configuration for this plugin lives in a text file called
C<revbank.products>, which has whitespace-separated columns:

=head2 Product ids

One or more product ids, separated by commas (no whitespace before or after the
commas). There is no way to have a comma or whitespace in a product id, but
every other printable character is valid.

The first product id on the line is considered canonical, the rest are aliases.

Note: if a product id is the same as another RevBank command (e.g. a username),
the first plugin that accepts the command will "win"; the precedence order is
defined by the C<revbank.plugins> configuration file. However, when a product
id appears multiple times within C<revbank.products>, the I<last> one is used.

Product ids that begin with C<+> can only be used as addons. When entered as
user input, it will be ignored by the C<products> plugin.

=head2 Price

The price of the product. This is the price to be deducted from the user's
account when they check out with this product in the cart. When it is a
negative number, the user will instead have money added to their account when
"buying" this product.

Optionally, the price can be augmented with at C<@> sign and the name of the
contra account. When no contra account is specified, C<+sales/products> is used.
Internal accounts (that start with C<-> or C<+>) are created automatically. A
regular account can also be used, but has to exist before the product can be
used.

(Note on internal accounts because they aren't documented elsewhere: liability
and revenue accounts begin with C<+>, asset and expense accounts begin with
C<->. The C<+> accounts typically grow larger over time, while C<-> accounts
typically go negative. In general, you would use a C<+> account in
C<revbank.products>. User accounts are liability accounts.)

=head2 Description

The description may contain whitespace.

=head2 Addons

Addons are products that are added as part of the main product. They are
specified after the description, with a C<+> sign that has whitespace before
it, and no whitespace after it.

When specifying an addon C<+foo>, and no product with the id C<+foo> exists,
the product id C<foo> is used instead. The difference is that a product id
C<+foo> can only be used as an addon for another product, while C<foo> can be
used either as an addon or a manually entered as a standalone product.

	example_id          2.20     Example product +first +second
	+first              1.20     First thing
	second              0.80     Second thing

In this example, the final price of the example product will be 4.20. It is not
possible to buy the first thing separate, but it is possible to buy the second
thing separate.

The addon product must be specified in C<revbank.products>; market products
cannot be used as addons.

When a product has addons, it becomes a compound product. This can be used to
separate a product into individual counter accounts for bookkeeping purposes,
to add a bottle deposit, or to add other additional fees or discounts.

When a compound product has a bare price that isn't 0.00, the bare price is
listed as a component named "Product".

A product can have multiple addons. Addon products themselves can also have
further addons, but circular recursion is not supported.
