=head1 NAME

statiegeld - RevBank plugin for return deposits

=head1 SYNOPISIS

revbank.products:

	clubmate     1.40                   "Club-Mate bottle" +sb
	cola         0.90                   "Cola can" +sc
	+sb          0.15@+statiegeld       "Bottle deposit"
	+sc          0.25@+statiegeld       "Can deposit"
	matecrate    1.50@+statiegeld       "Mate crate (empty)"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This plugin allows users to get refunds for empty container deposits.
In a typical setup, there would be a separate terminal where RevBank runs in
statiegeld mode. In statiegeld mode, you scan products to get your deposit
money back in the same way you would normally buy them.

Alternatively, on a regular RevBank terminal, the C<deposit> command (which is
provided by the C<deposit> plugin) is extended to support product id's where
you would normally enter an amount.

=head2 Usage

If RevBank was run with the environment variable C<REVBANK_STATIEGELD> set to
C<1>, the user just scans the products.

Alternatively, a product can be scanned after entering the C<deposit> command.

The product_id (barcode) is used to look up the stategield addon. In case of a
non-hidden addon (does not begin with C<+>), the name of the addon can also be
used.

=head2 Configuration

The statiegeld plugin recognises products from C<revbank.products> by matching
the contra accounts (the C<+statiegeld> in C<0.15@+statiegeld>) of the
product's addons against a list of known accounts.

That list is hard coded in the plugin, but could be changed if you want to use
a different account than the default C<+statiegeld>. The contra account can be
a hidden account or a regular account.

Don't remove statiegeld addons because that means customers can no longer get
their deposits back. Also, consider the consequences of changing the price
before doing so.

=head2 "statiegeld"?!

"Statiegeld" is the Dutch word for container deposits. Because the English word
"deposit" is also the verb for adding money to your account, and used
extensively in RevBank, it was useful to distinguish between the two features.

In the user interface, the terms "deposit" and "deposit return" are used.

=head2 Limits

By itself, the C<statiegeld> plugin only supports refunding deposits for known
products that are configured as such. There is no limit to how many containers
the user can return to get refunds. There's another plugin,
C<statiegeld_tokens>, that can be used to limit the refunds to what the same
user has actually purchased.
