=head1 NAME

vat - RevBank plugin for keeping a VAT administration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

C<$DATADIR/vat>

	+sales/products         +btw/laag 9
	+sales/products/hoogbtw +btw/hoog 21
	+sales/market           +btw/hoog 21
	lasercutter             +btw/hoog 21

C<$DATADIR/products>

	123123123   1.00      "Example product that gets the default contra"
	42424242    1.00@+sales/products/hoogbtw  "Example with high VAT rate"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

With this plugin, and a properly configured C<vat> file, RevBank will
subtract the appropriate VAT amount from the revenue account and collect that
in the indicated VAT accounts.

C<vat> is a whitespace separated file with three columns. The first
column is the account to match, the second column is the account to collect VAT
in, the third is the VAT rate (percentage).

VAT is hidden from the user interface, and only recorded internally, except
when the matched account is a regular account (does not begin with C<-> or
C<+>).

Note that in The Netherlands, hackerspaces will generally be able to use the
I<vrijstelling voor kantines> and I<vrijstelling voor fondsenwervende
activiteiten>. If you pick what you sell carefully, you may not need a BTW/VAT
administration at all.

=head1 CAVEATS

You should test extensively before using this plugin in production. Please let
me know how well it works, because you are probably the first to actually use
this plugin.

There is no configuration for a default VAT rate, so you have to carefully look
for every sales account that requires it and list each one.

Only the contras are matched, e.g. in the example from the synopsis, a C<give>
to C<lasercutter> will incur VAT, but when someone impersonates C<lasercutter>
and does a C<take> from a user from the perspective from C<lasercutter>, no VAT
is counted. This is a feature, and no regular actual user should ever use it
like that, but you should be aware of this subtlety and monitor the log file
for mistakes.

Negative amounts will get negative VAT (e.g. a C<take> from C<lasercutter> in
the example from the synopsis).

=head1 DISCLAIMER

RevBank is not certified or audited tax administration software. You need to
configure it according to local tax laws; don't just copy the example
configuration. Use at your own risk.
